Rework develop project (#1540)
astronomer/docs: astro/develop-project.md

---
sidebar_label: ‘Develop a project’
title: ‘Develop your Astro project’
id: develop-project
---

<head>
  <meta name=“description” content=“Learn how to add Airflow dependencies and customize an Astro project to meet the unique requirements of your organization.” />
  <meta name=“og:description” content=“Learn how to add Airflow dependencies and customize an Astro project to meet the unique requirements of your organization.” />
</head>

import {siteVariables} from ‘@site/src/versions’;
import Tabs from ‘@theme/Tabs’;
import TabItem from ‘@theme/TabItem’;

> An Astro project contains all of the files necessary to test and run DAGs in a local Airflow environment and on Astro. This guide contains information about how to organize and add files to your Astro project. It includes how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Astro project contains all of the files necessary to test and run DAGs in a local Airflow environment and on Astro. Use the information provided here to learn how to add and organize Astro project files and complete the following tasks:
```

- Add DAGs
- Apply changes
- Add Python and OS-level packages
- Add connections, pools, and environment variables locally
- Run on-build commands

> For information about testing DAGs once you’ve built your Astro project, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about testing DAGs after you’ve built your Astro project, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).
```

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro project](create-project.md).
- [The Astro CLI](cli/overview.md)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

## Add DAGs

In Apache Airflow, data pipelines are defined in Python code as Directed Acyclic Graph (DAGs). A DAG is a collection of tasks and dependencies between tasks that are defined as code. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](learn/dags.md).

DAGs are stored in the `dags` folder of your Astro project. To add a DAG to your project, add its `.py` file to this folder. The name of the file is what appears in the Airflow UI as the `dag_id`, or the name of the DAG. You cannot have more than one DAG with the same `dag_id`.

### Add DAG helper functions

> To build additional helper functions for DAGs into your Astro project, Astronomer recommends adding a folder with a set of files that can be used by Airflow DAGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build additional helper functions for DAGs into your Astro project, Astronomer recommends adding a folder with a set of files that can be used by the Airflow DAGs.
```

---
sidebar_label: ‘Develop a project’
title: ‘Develop your Astro project’
id: develop-project
---

<head>
  <meta name=“description” content=“Learn how to add Airflow dependencies and customize an Astro project to meet the unique requirements of your organization.” />
  <meta name=“og:description” content=“Learn how to add Airflow dependencies and customize an Astro project to meet the unique requirements of your organization.” />
</head>

import {siteVariables} from ‘@site/src/versions’;
import Tabs from ‘@theme/Tabs’;
import TabItem from ‘@theme/TabItem’;

> An Astro project contains all of the files necessary to test and run DAGs in a local Airflow environment and on Astro. This guide contains information about how to add or modify files in your Astro project and apply changes. It includes how to:

Author: ```suggestion
An Astro project contains all of the files necessary to test and run DAGs in a local Airflow environment and on Astro. This guide provides information about how to add and organize Astro project files, including:
```

- Add DAGs
- Add Python and OS-level packages
- Set environment variables
- Apply changes
- Run on-build commands

> For guidelines on testing that you've added to your Astro project, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For information about testing DAGs after you’ve added them to your Astro project, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).
```

Once the project builds, you can access the Airflow UI by going to `http://localhost:8080/` and logging in with `admin` for both your username and password. You can also access your Postgres database at `localhost:5432/postgres`.

## Add DAGs

In Apache Airflow, data pipelines are defined in Python code as Directed Acyclic Graph (DAGs). A DAG is a collection of tasks and dependencies between tasks that are defined as code. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](learn/dags.md).

DAGs are stored in the `dags` folder of your Astro project. To add a DAG to your project:

1. Add the `.py` file to this folder. The name of the file is what appears in the Airflow UI as the `dag_id`, or the name of the DAG. You cannot have more than one DAG with the same `dag_id`.
2. Save your changes to your code editor. If you're using a Mac, use **Command-S**.
3. Refresh your Airflow browser.

:::tip

> You don't need a local Airflow environment to test an individual DAG. Use the `astro run <dag-id>` command to run a DAG and see task logs from the command line and without the Airflow webserver or scheduler. See [Run and Debug DAGs with Astro Run](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#run-and-debug-dags-with-astro-run).

Author: ```suggestion
You don't need a local Airflow environment to test an individual DAG. Use the `astro run <dag-id>` command to run a DAG and see task logs from the command line without the Airflow webserver or scheduler. See [Run and Debug DAGs with Astro Run](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#run-and-debug-dags-with-astro-run).
```

   ```sh

    astro dev bash --scheduler “/bin/bash”

   ```

>     The command should output a list of files in the scheduler container including your helper functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run the following command to list the files and helper functions in the scheduler container:
```

   ```bash

    $ astro dev bash --scheduler “/bin/bash”
    bash-4.4$ ls
    Dockerfile  airflow_settings.yaml  helper_functions  logs  plugins  unittests.cfg
    airflow.cfg dags  include  packages.txt  requirements.txt

   ```

## Add Airflow connections, pools, variables

> Airflow connections are necessary to connect to external tools, such as a database or other third-party service. See [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](learn/connections.md#airflow-connection-basics) or [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections connect external applications such as databases and third-party services to Apache Airflow. See [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](learn/connections.md#airflow-connection-basics) or [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html).
```

> To add Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html), [pools](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/pools.html), and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) to your local Airflow environment, you can do any of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html), [pools](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/pools.html), and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) to your local Airflow environment, you have the following options:
```

> - Go to the **Admin** menu of the Airflow UI in a local Airflow environment. Click **Connections**, **Variables**, or **Pools** and add your values. These values are stored in the metadata database and are deleted when you run the [`astro dev kill` command](cli/astro-dev-kill.md), which can sometimes be used for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the Airflow UI, click **Admin** > **Connections**, click **Variables** or **Pools**, and then add your values. These values are stored in the metadata database and are deleted when you run the [`astro dev kill` command](cli/astro-dev-kill.md), which can sometimes be used for troubleshooting.
```

> - Use the `airflow_settings.yaml` file of your Astro project. This file is included in every Astro project and permanently stores your values in plain-text. To protect sensitive credentials or passwords, Astronomer recommends adding this file to `.gitignore`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modify the `airflow_settings.yaml` file of your Astro project. This file is included in every Astro project and permanently stores your values in plain-text. To protect sensitive credentials or passwords, Astronomer recommends adding this file to `.gitignore`.
```

- Use a secret backend, such as AWS Secrets Manager, and access the secret backend locally. See [Configure an external secrets backend on Astro](secrets-backend.md).

When you add Airflow connections, pools, and variables to the Airflow UI of a local environment or to your `airflow_settings.yaml` file, your values can only be used locally. When you deploy your project to a Deployment on Astro, the values in this file are not included.

> Astronomer recommends using the `airflow_settings.yaml` file so that you don’t have to manually redefine these values in the Airflow UI every time you restart your project. For security conscious organizations, Astronomer recommends [configuring a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends using the `airflow_settings.yaml` file so that you don’t have to manually redefine these values in the Airflow UI every time you restart your project. To ensure the security of your data, Astronomer recommends [configuring a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).
```

> ### Configure `airflow_settings.yaml` (Local development only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure `airflow_settings.yaml` (local development only)
```

> The `airflow_settings.yaml` file includes a template with default values for all possible configurations. To add a connection, variable, or pool, replace the default value with your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `airflow_settings.yaml` file includes a template with the default values for all possible configurations. To add a connection, variable, or pool, replace the default value with your own.
```

    bash-4.4$ ls
    Dockerfile  airflow_settings.yaml  helper_functions  logs  plugins  unittests.cfg
    airflow.cfg dags  include  packages.txt  requirements.txt

   ```

## Add Airflow connections, pools, variables

Airflow connections connect external applications such as databases and third-party services to Apache Airflow. See [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](learn/connections.md#airflow-connection-basics) or [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html).

To add Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html), [pools](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/pools.html), and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) to your local Airflow environment, you have the following options:

- Use the Airflow UI. In **Admin**, click **Connections**, **Variables** or **Pools**, and then add your values. These values are stored in the metadata database and are deleted when you run the [`astro dev kill` command](cli/astro-dev-kill.md), which can sometimes be used for troubleshooting.

> - Use the `airflow_settings.yaml` file of your Astro project. This file is included in every Astro project and permanently stores your values in plain-text. To prevent you from committing sensitive credentials or passwords to your version control tool, Astronomer recommends adding this file to `.gitignore`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Modify the `airflow_settings.yaml` file of your Astro project. This file is included in every Astro project and permanently stores your values in plain-text. To prevent you from committing sensitive credentials or passwords to your version control tool, Astronomer recommends adding this file to `.gitignore`.
```

- Use a secret backend, such as AWS Secrets Manager, and access the secret backend locally. See [Configure an external secrets backend on Astro](secrets-backend.md).

When you add Airflow objects to the Airflow UI of a local environment or to your `airflow_settings.yaml` file, your values can only be used locally. When you deploy your project to a Deployment on Astro, the values in this file are not included.

> Astronomer recommends using the `airflow_settings.yaml` file so that you don’t have to manually redefine Airflow objects in the Airflow UI every time you restart your project. For security conscious organizations, Astronomer recommends [configuring a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) or testing all DAGs on Astro instead of in a local Airflow environment.

Author: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends using the `airflow_settings.yaml` file so that you don’t have to manually redefine these values in the Airflow UI every time you restart your project. To ensure the security of your data, Astronomer recommends [configuring a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).
```

### Configure `airflow_settings.yaml` (local development only)

> The `airflow_settings.yaml` file includes a template with default values for all possible configurations. To add or change a connection, variable, or pool:

Author: ```suggestion
The `airflow_settings.yaml` file includes a template with the default values for all possible configurations. To add a connection, variable, or pool, replace the default value with your own.
```

1. Open the `airflow_settings.yaml` file and replace the default value with your own.

    ```yaml
    airflow:
      connections: ## conn_id and conn_type are required
        - conn_id: my_new_connection
          conn_type: postgres
          conn_host: 123.0.0.4
          conn_schema: airflow
          conn_login: user
          conn_password: pw
          conn_port: 5432
          conn_extra:
      pools: ## pool_name and pool_slot are required
        - pool_name: my_new_pool
          pool_slot: 5
          pool_description:
      variables: ## variable_name and variable_value are required
        - variable_name: my_variable
          variable_value: my_value
    ```

2. Save the modified `airflow_settings.yaml` file in your code editor. If you use a Mac computer, for example, use **Command-S**.
3. Import these objects to the Airflow UI. Run:

    ```sh
    astro dev object import
    ```
    
4. In the Airflow UI, click either the **Connections**, **Pools**, or **Variables** tab to see your new or modified objects.

> 5. Optional. To add another connection, pool, or variable, append it to this file within its corresponding section. To create another variable, for example, add it under the existing `variables` section of the same file:

Author: ```suggestion
5. Optional. To add another connection, pool, or variable, you append it to this file within its corresponding section. To create another variable, add it under the existing `variables` section of the same file. For example:
```

To add another connection, pool, or variable, you append it to this file within its corresponding section. To create another variable, you add it to the existing `variables` section of the same file. For example:

      variable_value: <my-variable-value-2>
  ```
  
## Add Python, OS-level packages, and Airflow providers

Most DAGs need a Python package or OS-level package to run. If you’re using Airflow for a data science project, for example, you might need to install popular data science libraries such as [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) or [NumPy (`numpy`)](https://numpy.org/). Adding a Python package to your Astro project is equivalent to running `pip install`.

Airflow providers are Python packages that contain all relevant Airflow modules for a third-party service. For example, `apache-airflow-providers-amazon` includes all hooks, operators, and integrations you need to access services on Amazon Web Services (AWS) with Airflow. See [Provider packages](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers/).

1. Add the package name to your Astro project. If it’s a Python package, add it to `requirements.txt`. If it’s an OS-level package, add it to `packages.txt`. The latest version of the package that’s publicly available is installed by default.

    To pin a version of a package, use the following syntax:
      ```text
      <package-name>==<version>
      ```

>     To install NumPy version 1.23.0, for example, add the following to your `requirements.txt` file:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, to install NumPy version 1.23.0, add the following to your `requirements.txt` file:
```

      ```text
      numpy==1.23.0
      ```
2. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).
3. Confirm that your package was installed:

    ```sh
    astro dev bash --scheduler “pip freeze | grep <package-name>”
    ```

>     This command outputs the version number of the installed package.

Author: ```suggestion
```

To view your local environment variables in the context of the generated Airflow configuration, run:

```
astro dev bash --scheduler “/bin/bash && cat airflow.cfg”
```

These commands output the contents of the generated `airflow.cfg` file, which lists your environment variables as human-readable configurations with inline comments.

:::

### Use multiple .env files

The Astro CLI looks for `.env` by default, but if you want to specify multiple files, make `.env` a top-level directory and create sub-files within that folder.

A project with multiple `.env` files might look like the following:

```
my_project
  ├── Dockerfile
  └──  dags
    └── my_dag
  ├── plugins
    └── my_plugin
  ├── airflow_settings.yaml
  ├── .env
    └── dev.env
    └── prod.env
```

## Run commands on build

To run additional commands as your Astro project is built into a Docker image, add them to your `Dockerfile` as `RUN` commands. These commands run as the last step in the image build process.

For example, if you want to run `ls` when your image builds, your `Dockerfile` would look like this:

> <pre><code parentName=“pre”>{`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<pre><code parentName="pre">{`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
```

      variable_value: my_value
```

> To add another connection, pool, or variable, append it to this file within its corresponding section. To create another variable, for example, add it under the existing `variables` section of the same file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add another connection, pool, or variable, you append it to this file within its corresponding section. To create another variable, you add it to the existing `variables` section of the same file. For example:
```

When you access the Airflow UI locally, you should see these values in the **Connections**, **Pools**, and **Variables** tabs.

## Add Python and OS-level packages

Most DAGs need a Python or OS-level package to run. If you’re using Airflow for data science, for example, you might need to install popular data science libraries such as [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), [NumPy (`numpy`)](https://numpy.org/), or [TensorFlow (`tensorflow`)](https://www.tensorflow.org/). Adding a Python package to your Astro project is equivalent to running `pip install`.

1. Add the package name to your Astro project. If it’s a Python package, add it to `requirements.txt`. If it’s an OS-level package, add it to `packages.txt`. The latest version of the package that’s publicly available is installed by default. To pin a version of a package, use the following syntax:
    ```text
    <package-name>==<version>
    ```
2. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).

> To install NumPy version 1.23.0, for example, add the following to your `requirements.txt` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to install NumPy version 1.23.0, you add the following to your `requirements.txt` file:
```

```text
numpy==1.23.0
```

> ### Confirm your package was installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Confirm package installation
```

To confirm that your package was installed, run:

```sh
astro dev bash --scheduler “pip freeze | grep <package-name>”
```

> This command outputs the version number of the installed package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command outputs the version number of the installed package.
```
Why is this helpful or significant?

Author: you're right! removed

## Add DAG utility files

Use the `include` folder to store additional utilities required by your DAGs. For example, templated SQL scripts and custom operators.

:::tip

When you use the `astro deploy -—dags` command, the `include` folder in the Astro project directory is not deployed with your DAGs and is instead built into the Docker image with your other project files.

If you are deploying only DAGs, Astronomer recommends moving the `include` folder into the `dags` directory so that your DAGs can access your utility files. See [Deploy DAGs only](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only).

:::

## Set environment variables locally

> For local development, Astronomer recommends setting environment variables in your Astro project’s `.env` file. You can then push your environment variables from the `.env` file to a Deployment using the [Astro CLI](cli/astro-deployment-variable-update.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local development, Astronomer recommends setting environment variables in the Astro project `.env` file. You can then push your environment variables from the `.env` file to a Deployment using the [Astro CLI](cli/astro-deployment-variable-update.md).
```

    Environment variables should be in all-caps and not include spaces.

3. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).
4. Optional. Run `astro deployment variable create/update --load` to export environment variables from your `.env` file to a Deployment. You can view and modify the exported environment variables in the Cloud UI page for your Deployment.

To manage environment variables in the Cloud UI, see [Environment Variables](environment-variables.md).

### Confirm your environment variable changes

> Confirm that your environment variables were applied in a local environment by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to confirm that your environment variables were applied in a local environment:
```

```sh
astro dev bash --scheduler “/bin/bash && env”
```

> These commands output all environment variables that are running locally. This includes both environment variables set in `.env` and environment variables set on Astro Runtime by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands output all environment variables that are running locally. This includes environment variables set in `.env` and environment variables set on Astro Runtime by default.
```

    Environment variables should be in all-caps and not include spaces.

3. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).

> 4. Confirm that your environment variables were applied in a local environment by running:

Author: ```suggestion
4. Run the following command to confirm that your environment variables were applied locally:
```

    └── prod.env
```

## Apply changes to your project

> The Astro CLI makes it easy to quickly apply and test changes to your Astro project. Depending on the file that you change, you might have to restart your local Aiflow environmentt to apply the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astro CLI lets you quickly apply and test changes to your Astro project. Some file changes require a restart of your local Airflow environment .
```

### DAG code changes

Changes made to the following directories in your Astro project don’t require rebuilding your project:

- `dags`
- `plugins`
- `include`

> To apply a change to these files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Apply changes
```

1. Save the latest version of the file to your local version control tool, such as VSCode.
2. Refresh the Airflow UI in your browser.

### Environment changes

> All changes made to the following files require rebuilding your Astro project into a Docker image and restarting your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All changes made to the following files require rebuilding your Astro project into a Docker image and restarting your Airflow environment:
```

- `packages.txt`
- `Dockerfile`
- `requirements.txt`
- `airflow_settings.yaml`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Apply changes
```

1. Save the change to your local version control tool, such as VSCode.
2. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).

### Restart your local environment

To restart your local Airflow environment, run:

```sh
astro dev restart
```

> These commands rebuild your image and restart the Docker containers running on your local machine with that new image. Alternatively, you can run just `astro dev stop` to stop your Docker containers without restarting or rebuilding your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command rebuilds your image and restarts the Docker containers running on your local machine with the new image. Alternatively, you can run `astro dev stop` to stop your Docker containers without restarting or rebuilding your project.
```

## Run commands on build

To run additional commands as your Astro project is built into a Docker image, add them to your `Dockerfile` as `RUN` commands. These commands run as the last step in the image build process.

> For example, if you want to run `ls` when your image builds, your `Dockerfile` would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this is how your `Dockerfile` appears if you want to run `ls` when your image builds:
```

<pre><code parentName=“pre”>{`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
RUN ls
`}</code></pre>

> This is supported both on Astro and in the context of local development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is supported on Astro and in local development.
```

<pre><code parentName=“pre”>{`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
RUN ls
`}</code></pre>

This is supported both on Astro and in the context of local development.

## Add a CA certificate to an Astro Runtime image

If you need your Astro Deployment to communicate securely with a remote service using a certificate signed by an untrusted or internal certificate authority (CA), you need to add the CA certificate to the trust store inside your Astro project's Docker image.

1. In your Astro project `Dockerfile`, add the following entry below the existing `FROM` statement which specifies your Astro Runtime image version:

    ```docker
    USER root
    COPY <internal-ca.crt>/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/<your-company-name>/
    RUN update-ca-certificates
    USER astro
    ```
2. Optional. Add additional `COPY` statements before the `RUN update-ca-certificates` stanza for each CA certificate your organization is using for external access.

3. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment) or deploy to Astro. See [Deploy code](deploy-code.md).

## Apply changes to your project

> The Astro CLI makes it easy to quickly apply and test changes to your Astro project. Depending on the file that you change, you might have to restart your local Aiflow environment to apply the change.

Author: ```suggestion
The Astro CLI lets you quickly apply and test changes to your Astro project. Some file changes require a restart of your local Airflow environment.
```

### DAG code changes

Changes made to the following directories in your Astro project don’t require rebuilding your project:

- `dags`
- `plugins`
- `include`

#### Apply changes

1. Save the latest version of the file to your local version control tool, such as VSCode.
2. Refresh the Airflow UI in your browser.

### Environment changes

All changes made to the following files require rebuilding your Astro project into a Docker image and restarting your Airflow environment:

- `packages.txt`
- `Dockerfile`
- `requirements.txt`
- `airflow_settings.yaml`

> #### Apply changes
> 1. Save the change to your local version control tool, such as VSCode.
> 2. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).

Author: ```suggestion
#### Apply changes

1. Save the change to your local version control tool, such as VSCode.
2. [Restart your local environment](develop-project.md#restart-your-local-environment).
```
